The Project Gutenberg eBook of Hoppy Toad Tales, by William A.
Hennessey

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Hoppy Toad Tales

Author: William A. Hennessey

Release Date: December 12, 2021 [eBook #66926]

Language: English

Produced by: Charlene Taylor, hekula03 and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
             produced from images generously made available by The
             Internet Archive/American Libraries.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HOPPY TOAD TALES ***





Hoppy Toad Tales




  HOPPY TOAD
  TALES

  BY
  William A. Hennessey

  [Illustration: (Publisher colophon.)]

  The Christopher Publishing House
  Boston, U. S. A.




  COPYRIGHT 1923
  BY THE CHRISTOPHER PUBLISHING HOUSE

[Illustration: (Small decorative icon.)]




  _Dedicated
  to the Memory of
  ANNIE LUCY LIBBEY_




TABLE OF CONTENTS


                                         PAGE

  Hoppy Toad Gets Lost                      7

  Hoppy Toad’s Narrow Escape               13

  Hoppy Toad to the Rescue                 19

  Hoppy Toad Meets Sally Woodpecker        25

  Hoppy Toad and Bimby Squirrel            31

  Hoppy Toad Saves Jenny Wild Duck
      From an Untimely End                 37

  Hoppy Toad and Billy Crow                43

[Illustration: (A bull-frog.)]




HOPPY TOAD GETS LOST.


Hoppy Toad was a wee bit of a toad who had only recently seen the light
of day.

One day he strayed away from his home--a hole in the ground, at the
roots of a tree. In doing so he disobeyed Ma Toad who told him to play
close to his home.

He hopped along through the woods, often stopping for a while to eat
insects which happened across his path. Coming to the edge of the woods
he saw a bull-frog heading his way, though he did not know what it was.
He had never seen one before and was quite frightened.

“Guess I’ll turn around and go back home,” he said to himself.

He started hopping back through the woods as fast as he could, but the
bull-frog, having seen him, hopped after him.

“Wonder what that young toad is doing around these parts; he is too
small to be hopping through these woods,” thought the bull-frog. “Guess
I’ll follow him and see what he’s up to.”

Hoppy Toad, not knowing he was followed, hopped along hurriedly. Coming
to a neck of the woods where there were paths leading in all directions
he became confused.

“I don’t remember coming by these paths,” he mused. “I don’t know which
one to take. I wish I had obeyed mamma and played around home.”

Night was fast nearing; in fact the sun was slowly sinking below the
tall trees.

The bull-frog, noticing Hoppy Toad hesitate, leaped forward and soon
reached the spot where Hoppy Toad was. Hoppy Toad, on seeing him, shook
all over with fright.

“Don’t be scared,” said the bull-frog. “I won’t hurt you. What is your
name?”

“Hoppy Toad,” was the timid reply.

“Billy Bull-Frog is my name, Hoppy Toad. You seem to be lost. Am I
right?”

“Yes! I live close to a pond. My home is a hole in the ground, at the
roots of a tree.”

“How did you happen to land way over here?”

“I didn’t obey my mamma; that is how I happened to hop along through the
woods. I thought I would be all right.”

“I know where you live, Hoppy Toad. I’ll show you how to get back home.”

“That makes me feel happy, Billy Bull-Frog. I had almost given up hopes
of ever getting home again.”

They retraced their hops back through the woods a bit, until an opening
was reached.

“There,” said Billy Bull-Frog, “you just scoot along through that
opening and follow your nose. It is a short cut to your home. In the
future do what your mother asks you to. She knows best.”

“I will, Billy Bull-Frog. Thank you for your kindness in showing me the
way back home. Good-bye.”

“Good-bye, Hoppy Toad.”

Hoppy Toad hopped along toward home as fast as he could hop. The hoot
of an owl startled him at times, but he kept hopping along, finally
reaching his home, tired and seeking forgiveness.

Ma Toad was happy when he hopped into his home as was Pa toad.

“Forgive me, mamma,” said Hoppy Toad.

“I will, Hoppy, but you must obey me in the future. Did you get lost?”

“Yes! If it hadn’t been for Billy Bull-Frog I never would have been
back.”

Moral: Obey your parents.

[Illustration: END]

[Illustration: (A frog basking in the sun.)]




HOPPY TOAD’S NARROW ESCAPE.


One day Hoppy Toad was basking in the sun. So interested was he in
taking his sun-bath, he failed to notice two rough-looking boys who
were coming toward him.

One boy said to the other: “Go easy, Jack, maybe we can catch him. I
have long wanted to get one of these toads; they make good pets; one
can have lots of fun with one.”

These words were spoken in a near whisper and Hoppy Toad heard him not.
The biggest boy of the two crept along slowly, making as little noise
as possible. The smaller boy remained a few feet behind, prepared to
give chase to Hoppy Toad should he happen to notice the attempt to
capture him and make an effort to escape.

The big boy crept along so carefully that Hoppy Toad was entirely
ignorant of the danger facing him. He continued to bask joyfully in the
sun.

“This is easy,” said the big boy. “He doesn’t have the least idea there
is a person around to disturb him. I’ll have a great time with him when
I get him tamed.”

He was now within a few feet of Hoppy Toad, and ready to capture poor
Hoppy, who was still enjoying the warmth of the sun’s rays.

The big boy was in the act of reaching for Hoppy Toad, when a bumblebee
stung him on the arm, causing him to let out a wild scream that
startled the smaller boy. As a result Hoppy Toad hopped off to safety,
while the big boy, crying from the pain of the sting of the bumblebee,
ran as fast as his legs would carry him for home. The small boy
followed him fearful that he, too, might be stung by the bumblebee.

Hoppy Toad looked around for the bumblebee who had rescued him, for he
wished to thank him for the timely rescue. He spied him on a branch of
a wild rose bush nearby and hopped gleefully to the bush to give him
his thanks for the rescue.

“Mr. Bumblebee,” he said, “I want to thank you for saving me from the
hands of that boy.”

“That is all right, Mr. Toad,” he replied, “but hereafter keep your
wits about you; there may not always be somebody around to rescue you.”

“May I ask your name?” said Hoppy Toad.

“Jimmy Bumblebee is my name,” was the reply. “What is yours?”

“Hoppy Toad.”

“Well, Hoppy Toad, I have a favor to ask of you. As a reward for my
saving you I want you to promise me that you will not eat any more
honeybees; they have very important work to perform in this world, and
when you eat one of them there is just so much lost. They are useful
because they supply the kiddies and grown folks with honey. Will you
promise me?”

“I will, Jimmy Bumblebee, and I’ll tell other toads and frogs not to
eat any more honeybees or bumblebees.”

“Thank you,” was Jimmy Bumblebee’s farewell as he flew off in an
easterly direction.

“Well, Hoppy Toad,” said Hoppy to himself, “you are a lucky boy to be
free.”

He hopped into his home and told Ma and Pa Toad of his rescue by Jimmie
Bumblebee.

“Just do as Jimmie Bumblebee told you to; keep your wits about you and
you will be all right,” said Pa Toad.

Moral: Always keep your wits about you.

[Illustration: END]

[Illustration: (A bunny rabbit.)]




HOPPY TOAD TO THE RESCUE.


It was a clear, cool day in early spring; the trees were budding a wee
bit, and the birds were on the wing from the South.

Hoppy Toad, who had been confined all winter to his underground home,
was a happy fellow when once again he breathed the good fresh air.

He hopped into the pond joyfully and enjoyed a good long swim; then he
chatted for a while with the frogs and young tadpoles.

“My, but I’m a happy boy,” he said to himself.

Hopping along the ground close to his home--he never had strayed away
since he got lost in the woods and Billy Bull-Frog showed him the way
home--he was startled to see Bunny Rabbit running toward him as fast
as his legs would carry him.

As he neared Hoppy Toad, Hoppy shouted, “What is your hurry?”

Bunny Rabbit replied, “Tommy Ferret is chasing me; guess he is hungry
and wants to make a meal off me. I can’t hold out much longer.”

Hoppy Toad said, “Scoot for that opening in yonder tree; he will never
find you there.”

Bunny Rabbit wasted no time in doing what Hoppy Toad told him to, and
was soon safely lodged in the tree. It was a good thing that he did,
for a moment later, Tommy Ferret, with red eyes that seemed to pop
right out of his head, came into view.

Noticing Hoppy Toad, he stopped, and asked, “Did you see anything of
Bunny Rabbit? He came this way, I think.”

Bunny Rabbit, from within the tree, shook all over; he was afraid that
Tommy Ferret might find him in his hiding place. But here was where
Hoppy Toad saved him.

In reply to Tommy Ferret’s question, Hoppy Toad said, “I saw Bunny
Rabbit run by here a few minutes ago; he was going like a streak when
he passed me, and headed up yonder road.”

“Thank you,” said Tommy Ferret. “I’ll soon have him for a meal; he must
be about all in by this time.”

He again took up the chase, and was soon lost from sight in his journey
up the road where Hoppy Toad had told him Bunny Rabbit was scampering
along.

“It’s all right, Bunny Rabbit,” said Hoppy Toad, “come on out, Tommy
Ferret is on a wild goose chase after you.”

Bunny Rabbit, still shaking with fright, came out of his hiding place
and ran to where Hoppy Toad was.

He said, “I don’t know how I can ever repay you for saving me. When
Tommy Ferret finds that you fooled him he is apt to make it unpleasant
for you.”

“I’ll watch for him closely; I always keep my wits about me.”

“Well, I guess I’ll head for home; I live in the middle of the woods.
May I ask your name?”

“Hoppy Toad is my name; I guessed yours was Bunny Rabbit. Am I right?”

“You are right.”

“Does Tommy Ferret know where you live?”

“I don’t think so. Why do you ask?”

“I didn’t know but what he might drive you out of your home if he did.
He is pretty foxy. Why don’t you change your home to another part of
the woods? He may know where you live at that.”

“That is a good idea, Hoppy Toad. I’ll do it right away; I think Ma
and Pa Rabbit want to move anyway. I guess I’ll run along.”

“Good-bye, Bunny Rabbit,” said Hoppy Toad.

“Good-bye, Hoppy Toad,” said Bunny Rabbit. “I’ll always think of you as
the fellow who saved me from the clutches of Tommy Ferret.”

Moral: Lend a helping hand to those in need.

[Illustration: END]

[Illustration: (A rabbit.)]




HOPPY TOAD MEETS SALLY WOODPECKER.


Hoppy Toad was hopping along through the small stretch of woods near
his home one day when he was scared out of his wits. Something fell
from the branch of a tree and landed on his back, then rolling over on
to the ground.

It was several minutes before Hoppy Toad recovered from the shock.
Looking around, he spied a bird with a long, sharp bill lying on the
ground. It seemed to be helpless.

“What’s the matter with you?” asked Hoppy Toad.

“I’ve hurt one of my wings; that is what made me fall from the branch
of the tree and land on top of you. I’m sorry it happened.”

“That’s all right,” said Hoppy Toad. “I’ll see if I can’t help you get
the wing fixed so you can fly again. What is your name?”

“Sally Woodpecker. It will be very kind of you if you can find someone
to fix my wing. My but it hurts!”

“My name is Hoppy Toad. I’ll go get Dr. Pheasant. He will fix the wing
for you in a jiffy.”

Hoppy Toad hopped off through the woods toward the pond just beyond the
entrance to the woods, thinking he might find Dr. Pheasant there. Sure
enough he did.

“Doctor,” said Hoppy Toad. “There is a woodpecker in the woods with a
lame wing. She can’t fly. Can you help her?”

“I guess I can, Hoppy Toad,” said Dr. Pheasant, “Lead me to her.”

Hoppy Toad hopped through the woods, followed by Dr. Pheasant, until
the spot where Sally Woodpecker was lying was reached.

“I’ve brought Dr. Pheasant to fix your wing, Sally Woodpecker,” said
Hoppy Toad.

“That is really kind of you,” said Sally.

Dr. Pheasant looked at the lame wing and said, “I can fix it, all
right.”

In a few minutes Sally Woodpecker’s wing was fixed so that she could
fly again.

“I’m thankful to you, Dr. Pheasant, for fixing my wing, and I want to
thank you also, Hoppy Toad, for your kindness in getting a doctor.”

“You mustn’t fly around too much, Sally,” said Dr. Pheasant. “Give it a
chance to mend a bit.”

“I’ll do as you say, Dr. Pheasant. Will there be any need of me having
you again?”

“I don’t think so. If there is, just tell Hoppy Toad. He is always
hopping in and around the woods, and knows better than anybody where to
find me.”

“I’ll hunt Hoppy Toad up if anything happens, believe me, doctor.”

“Well, I’ve got to call on some sick ganders now. Excuse me, please!”

Dr. Pheasant strutted away leaving Hoppy Toad and Sally Woodpecker by
themselves.

“Well, Hoppy Toad, I guess I’ll fly to my nest and take things easy for
a while. Good-bye and good luck,” said Sally Woodpecker.

“Good-bye and good luck to you, Sally Woodpecker,” said Hoppy Toad.

Sally Woodpecker flew from the ground a few feet to test her wing, and
finding it all right, flew off in a westerly direction to her nest.

Hoppy Toad hopped toward his home satisfied that he had performed a
good deed. Ma and Pa Toad were pleased when Hoppy Toad told them of his
aid in fixing Sally Woodpecker’s wing.

“I’m proud of you, Hoppy,” said Pa Toad.

Moral: A good deed is always worth while.

[Illustration: END]

[Illustration: (Bimby Squirrel.)]




HOPPY TOAD AND BIMBY SQUIRREL.


One day Hoppy Toad was hopping along in the grass near Tadpole Pond
when he was surprised to find himself resting on the bushy tail of a
squirrel.

The squirrel, who was in the act of cracking a nut, turned his head to
see who was on his tail; it startled him quite a bit and caused him to
drop the nut.

“Pardon me,” said Hoppy Toad.

“That’s all right,” said the squirrel. “You gave me quite a scare,
though. I thought it was someone after me.”

“What is your name?” asked Hoppy Toad.

“Bimby Squirrel,” replied the squirrel. “What is yours?”

“Hoppy Toad,” said Hoppy.

“I’ve heard of you,” said Bimby Squirrel. “Billy Bull-Frog told me
something about you once. I believe he showed you the way home one time
when you got lost in the woods. He lives near me.”

“How is Billy Bull-Frog these days?” asked Hoppy Toad.

“He has been under the weather a bit lately; he doesn’t seem to know
what the trouble is,” said Bimby Squirrel.

“That’s too bad. I’ll bet Dr. Pheasant could help him.”

“I don’t know but what he might; I’ve heard he is a good doctor.”

“None better. If I go get him will you show him the way to Billy
Bull-Frog’s home?”

“I’ll do it, yes. But you must hurry. Ma and Pa Squirrel will be
worried about me if I don’t get home soon.”

Hoppy Toad was off like a streak to where he thought he might find Dr.
Pheasant. He found him heading toward home and stopped him.

“Oh, doctor,” said Hoppy Toad, “I’m sorry to bother you, but I’ve a
friend--Billy Bull-Frog--who once did me a good turn, and he has been
sick for quite a spell. Will you go to him and see if you can help him?”

“I will go right away, Hoppy Toad,” said Dr. Pheasant. “I always like
to help those who are sick.”

Dr. Pheasant followed Hoppy Toad until they reached the spot where
Bimby Squirrel was waiting. Bimby Squirrel was introduced by Hoppy Toad
to Dr. Pheasant and they started for Billy Bull-Frog’s home. After a
journey through the woods they reached the home of Billy Bull-Frog.

Bimby Squirrel left them there and hurried home; before leaving he told
them of a short cut back home. They found Billy Bull-Frog flat on his
back.

“What is the trouble?” asked Hoppy Toad.

“I don’t know what the matter is, Hoppy Toad,” said Billy Bull-Frog.
“What are you doing way over here anyway?”

“Bimby Squirrel told me you were sick; so I’ve brought Dr. Pheasant
along to see if he can’t help you.”

“That is very thoughtful of you,” said Billy Bull-Frog.

Dr. Pheasant got to work on Billy Bull-Frog and soon found out what the
trouble was.

“You need a rest,” said he, “you have been working too hard lately.”

“Is that all there is wrong with me, doctor?”

“That is all. You rest up for a month and you will feel better.”

“Thank you, doctor, and you, too, Hoppy Toad, for your kindness in
getting the doctor.”

“That is all right,” said Hoppy Toad, “we are pleased to be able to
help you.”

They bade Billy Bull-Frog good-bye and departed for home.

Moral: If someone does you a good turn, repay it if you can.

[Illustration: END]

[Illustration: (A bunny rabbit.)]




HOPPY TOAD SAVES JENNY WILD DUCK FROM AN UNTIMELY END.


Jenny Wild Duck was a short-legged water-fowl who took great delight in
gliding along the waters of Tadpole Pond.

One day she spied some hemp-seed lying on the surface of the pond, and
after it she went. Hoppy Toad, who chanced to be enjoying a swim in the
pond, noticed a trap had been set for her, and swimming to her side, he
whispered a warning.

“Don’t bother with that hemp-seed,” he said, “else you will soon be a
dead duck.”

She was rather startled by Hoppy Toad’s words of warning, but she
obeyed him, gliding away from the hemp-seed swiftly. Hoppy Toad swam
along behind her until an out-of-the-way cove was reached.

“How did you happen to discover that there was a trap set for me?”
asked Jenny Wild Duck.

“I always keep my wits about me,” said Hoppy Toad. “I watched two men
set out a decoy early this morning--I’m always up bright and early. I
thought that they were after wild ducks like yourself, for Pa Toad has
often told me of these decoys, and how they try to trap innocent wild
ducks.”

“I am a thousand times thankful to you for saving my life,” said Jenny
Wild Duck. “I’m afraid I will never have a chance to repay you for your
kindness.”

“That is all right,” said Hoppy Toad. “I don’t expect you to repay me
for doing my duty.”

“That is a good way to look at it,” said Jenny Wild Duck. “I’ll have
to warn my husband, Johnny Drake, to steer clear of the decoy.”

“That is a good idea,” said Hoppy Toad. “The both of you had better
keep your eyes open in the future and not be led into a trap. It is a
shame that human beings should use such unfair means to trap innocents
who never harm or destroy anything.”

“It doesn’t seem right,” said Jenny Wild Duck, “but some people don’t
know right from wrong.”

“Very true,” said Hoppy Toad. “It’s too bad that someone couldn’t teach
them right from wrong.”

“It isn’t much use to try and teach them; a person has got to have a
bit of common sense more than anything else,” said Jenny.

“That is right,” said Hoppy Toad. “After all it is nearly all common
sense; if people would only stop and think a while they would soon see
where they were doing wrong.”

“True,” said Jenny. “That’s just what they don’t do; they don’t stop to
think.”

“Well, I guess I will hop around on the shore a while if you’ll excuse
me,” said Hoppy Toad. “You might tell me your name, though, before I
go.”

“Jenny Wild Duck,” was the reply. “What is yours?”

“Hoppy Toad.”

“Well, good-bye and good luck,” said Jenny Wild Duck.

“Good-bye,” said Hoppy Toad, “keep your wits about you.”

Jenny Wild Duck rose from the still waters of the pond and flew off.
Hoppy Toad lost no time in swimming for the shore, where he was soon
hopping along through the grass.

“I feel very happy,” he said to himself. “And why shouldn’t I; didn’t
I do Jenny Wild Duck a good turn? Isn’t that what we live for; to help
those who are in need?”

Moral: We can help someone every day if we will only have the will.

[Illustration: END]

[Illustration: (Billy Crow on a scarecrow.)]




HOPPY TOAD AND BILLY CROW.


In the vicinity of Tadpole Pond there was a large farm. On this farm
the owner made a specialty of raising corn, potatoes and other crops
which he sold in the nearby towns. In other words the farm provided a
living for him.

Now there was a black crow--Billy Crow was his name--and he caused this
hard-working farmer all kinds of trouble. He would dig up the seeded
corn with his long beak; naturally the corn wouldn’t grow and the
farmer of course lost quite a bit of money.

The funniest looking scarecrow you ever saw was placed in the
corn-field to scare Billy Crow away. But strange to say, Billy Crow
didn’t scare a bit. He would fly all around the scarecrow; he would
even light on his arms and roost there for quite a spell. Then he
would dig his beak into the ground and steal the corn seed.

The farmer got pretty well discouraged. It seemed as though he would
have to stop planting corn until Billy Crow stopped thieving, and the
only thing that would do that would be the killing of this troublesome
black crow. Now the farmer was a good-hearted man and he didn’t want to
kill him. So Billy Crow kept right on stealing the corn seed.

One day Hoppy Toad happened along by the corn-field, and he noticed
Billy Crow in the act of digging up the corn seed. He hopped into the
field where the thieving black crow was. Billy Crow, on noticing Hoppy
Toad, was not at all pleased at his presence. In fact, he was very mad.

Hoppy Toad gazed at him for awhile, and said, “You ought to be ashamed
of yourself. The idea of stealing corn seed from the hard-working
farmer who is trying to make an honest living.”

“But he raises more than he can use, doesn’t he?” asked Billy Crow.

“Indeed he doesn’t,” replied Hoppy Toad. “He needs all the corn he can
raise.”

“I wouldn’t have stolen it if I had known that,” said Billy Crow.

“That is no excuse for stealing, Mr. Crow. I wouldn’t want to be called
a thief.”

“I suppose that I have been doing wrong all along. You see I was
brought up to steal; I never have done anything else.”

“Why not turn over a new leaf, then, and live a good honest life? It
isn’t too late.”

“I’ll do it. From now on I’m going to be an honest crow.”

“You will be much happier, Mr. Crow, I assure you.”

“I’m glad you happened around and put an end to my thieving. I feel
very happy in the thought that I’m going to be a good crow in the
future.”

“Well, Mr. Crow, I must be going now. Remember your oath taken before
Hoppy Toad.”

“I surely will,” replied Billy Crow ere he winged his way toward home.

Hoppy Toad, happy with the thoughts of having reformed a thieving black
crow, hopped along gleefully toward home.

In his underground home he told Ma and Pa Toad the tale of his success
in pointing out the right path to Billy Crow. Naturally they were
pleased.

As Pa Toad said, “Hoppy Toad, you are a good Samaritan. I’m really
proud of you.”

Moral: Honesty reaps a worthy reward.

[Illustration: END]




  TRANSCRIBER’S NOTE


  Italic text is denoted by _underscores_.

  Obvious typographical errors and punctuation errors have been
  corrected after careful comparison with other occurrences within
  the text and consultation of external sources.

  The endings of the chapter headings have been standardized with
  periods.

  Pg 27: ‘You musn’t fly’ replaced by ‘You mustn’t fly’.

  Pg 32: Missing opening quotation marks inserted before ‘Billy Bull-Frog
         told me’.

  Pg 33: Missing closing quotation marks inserted after ‘right away,
         Hoppy Toad,’.

  Pg 34: Deleted opening single quotation mark before ‘Hoppy Toad,” said
         Billy’.

  Pg 37: Deleted closing quotation marks after ‘whispered a warning’.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HOPPY TOAD TALES ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
